So in the last lectures, we added the library to our set up.
Now I want to add an icon because that is what we include at the library,
right.
Adding an icon is super simple but where can we add it? Maybe the place detail, let's say we don't want to
have a delete button like this but we want to create our own button which has this trash bin
icon essentially. Now this button here can only be used with text so I'm going to remove it
and instead I want to create my own icon and you learned that for this, we first of all need the touchable
components. Now I'm going to use touchable opacity to make it transparent when we click on it,
then I'm going to add my touchable opacity component here,
in there I now want to use an icon in my trash bin icon. Since we just added react native vector items,
I can now import icon from react native vector icons and then slash the font you want to use, so in my case
ionicon, without ttf
and it's ionicons actually.
So with that I get my icon, now I want to use that in here
so I'm just going to use icon, self-closing tag,
we can now add a size property and you can find more information about the usage in the official documentation
if you scroll down,
there you see the icon component,
you can set the size name and color,
so size maybe 30,
let's see if that's fine.
Now for the name, for that I have to go to the ionicons page and search for trash here,
maybe use this one,
so I'll copy iOS trash as the name, simply add the name property here then and it's just a string, iOS
trash
and then finally, let's also add a color,
maybe red. Now let's save all of that and chances are your app is now broken because we added a new
package and even added some native code,
so a good fix then always is to quit the process running in your development window here, in your javascript
development process,
quit that and rerun it with npm start or simply rerun npm android to well basically also restart that
and I'm also going to rerun iOS to make sure that this is also rebuilt correctly thereafter.
Now these rebuilds may take a bit longer because you did edit the date of code in the end, you added a
package, so let's wait for it to finish,
android finished,
let me now rerun npm run ios to also rebuild that with our new native code. And now both applications are running
again, let me now add a new place and open it here and we see an icon, we should see it at least and the
same should also work on Android.
In case it's broken as it is here, sometimes it is when you change the native code, simply kill it and
restart the app or if it still fails, simply uninstall it
and rebuild it again. After all of that, it should finally work there too and this is really just because
we added a package and then sometimes it just breaks
but there we can also see the trash bin and I just temporarily quit react native debugging tools because
that also can sometimes block it, simply feel free to restart them thereafter.
You don't need to do that that often, readjust if you add such libraries, it can break your development
process from time to time.
But we're back up and running,
we got our trash bin in there,
we got our icon in there,
now of course we can improve the styling of that a little bit,
could center it and for that, what we can do is we can simply add a view to wrap our little
icon here and give that icon that view, its own style, delete button maybe where we align items in the
center.
Let's now assign a delete button style to the view here,
style should be styles
delete button.
Save this file and this looks much better, now hot reloading isn't turned on here on the Android simulator
because I reloaded everything there, so that's why it didn't reload
but if I add Munich there again and open this, here it's now also centered.
Now we get our buttons and we can click them, nothing happens of course but only because it didn't connect
the click listener so let's add on press to touchable opacity again and then simply execute props on what
was it called, item deleted.
Let's quickly check our app.js file on item deleted,
so that's the property I want to execute here.
So let me save this again, now clicking that also closes it and deletes the item. And with that, we added
our third party library hooking into native device features to the app.